README.md, before:

# Dexter

Extensions to Crystal's `Log` class.

* 100% compatible with built-in Crystal's [`Log`](https://crystal-lang.org/api/latest/Log.html)
* Adds methods for easily logging key/value data
* Built-in `Dexter::JSONLogFormatter` for formatting Logs as JSON
* Helper class for making log formatting simpler and more flexible
* Simpler configuration with helpful compile-time guarantees

## Installation

1. Add the dependency to your `shard.yml`:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     dexter:
       github: luckyframework/dexter
       version: ~> 0.2
   ```

2. Run `shards install`

## Getting started example

```crystal
require "dexter"

backend = Log::IOBackend.new
backend.formatter = Dexter::JSONLogFormatter.proc
# Equivalent to: Log.builder.bind "*", :info, backend
Log.dexter.configure(:info, backend)

# These examples use 'info' but you can use 'debug', 'warn', and 'error' as well.
#
# Logs timestamp, severity and {foo: "bar"} as JSON
Log.dexter.info { {foo: "bar"} }

# You can pass an exception *and* key/value data
Log.dexter.error(exception: my_exception) { {foo: "bar"} }

# Fully compatible with built-in Crystal Log
#
# Logs timestamp, severity and {message: "My message"} as JSON
Log.info { "My message" }
```

### Log configuration

Use `{LogClass}.dexter.configure to configure `{LogClass}` and its child logs

Rather than pass a string `source` to `Log.builder.bind` you can configure a
log using its class. This is a type-safe and simpler alternative to using
`Log.builder.bind`.

## Examples:

> Note: the backend can be left off and it will use the `{LogClass}`'s
> existing backend or a new `Log::IOBackend`

```crystal
# Configure all logs.
# Similar to `Log.builder.bind "*"`
Log.dexter.configure(:info, backend)

# Configure Avram::Log and all child logs
# Similar to `Log.builder.bind "avram.*"
Avram::Log.dexter.configure(:warn)

# Can further customize child Logs
Avram::QueryLog.dexter.configure(:none)
Avram::FailedQueryLog.dexter.configure(:info, SomeOtherBackend.new)
```

`{LogClass}.dexter.configure` sets all child logs to the given
level/backend . If you want to configure a Log and leave its children alone
it is best to set the `level` or `backend` directly:

```crystal
MyShard::Log.level = :error
MyShard::Log.backend = MyCustomBackend.new
```

## Built-in formatters

Dexter works with *any* `Log::Formatter`, but has a JSON formatter built-in
that works especially well.

* Logs exceptions in an easily parseable format
```json
{
  "exception": { "class": "RuntimeError", "message": "Something broke", backtrace: ["line_of_code.cr:123"] }
}
```
* Puts string message in a `message` key that comes first so you can find it easily
* JSON works great for searching logs with many SaaS logging services


## Create your own formatter

Included is a `Dexter::JSONLogFormatter`, but you can create your own formatter to format
and output log data however you want. For example,
[Lucky](https://luckyframework.org) has a `PrettyLogFormatter` that formats data
in a human readable format during development, and uses the `JSONLogFormatter`
in production.

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/luckyframework/dexter/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Contributors

- [Paul Smith](https://github.com/paulcsmith) - creator and maintainer

Commit message:

Add link to example formatter

README.md, after:

# Dexter

Extensions to Crystal's `Log` class.

* 100% compatible with built-in Crystal's [`Log`](https://crystal-lang.org/api/latest/Log.html)
* Adds methods for easily logging key/value data
* Built-in `Dexter::JSONLogFormatter` for formatting Logs as JSON
* Helper class for making log formatting simpler and more flexible
* Simpler configuration with helpful compile-time guarantees

## Installation

1. Add the dependency to your `shard.yml`:

   ```yaml
   dependencies:
     dexter:
       github: luckyframework/dexter
       version: ~> 0.2
   ```

2. Run `shards install`

## Getting started example

```crystal
require "dexter"

backend = Log::IOBackend.new
backend.formatter = Dexter::JSONLogFormatter.proc
# Equivalent to: Log.builder.bind "*", :info, backend
Log.dexter.configure(:info, backend)

# These examples use 'info' but you can use 'debug', 'warn', and 'error' as well.
#
# Logs timestamp, severity and {foo: "bar"} as JSON
Log.dexter.info { {foo: "bar"} }

# You can pass an exception *and* key/value data
Log.dexter.error(exception: my_exception) { {foo: "bar"} }

# Fully compatible with built-in Crystal Log
#
# Logs timestamp, severity and {message: "My message"} as JSON
Log.info { "My message" }
```

### Log configuration

Use `{LogClass}.dexter.configure to configure `{LogClass}` and its child logs

Rather than pass a string `source` to `Log.builder.bind` you can configure a
log using its class. This is a type-safe and simpler alternative to using
`Log.builder.bind`.

## Examples:

> Note: the backend can be left off and it will use the `{LogClass}`'s
> existing backend or a new `Log::IOBackend`

```crystal
# Configure all logs.
# Similar to `Log.builder.bind "*"`
Log.dexter.configure(:info, backend)

# Configure Avram::Log and all child logs
# Similar to `Log.builder.bind "avram.*"
Avram::Log.dexter.configure(:warn)

# Can further customize child Logs
Avram::QueryLog.dexter.configure(:none)
Avram::FailedQueryLog.dexter.configure(:info, SomeOtherBackend.new)
```

`{LogClass}.dexter.configure` sets all child logs to the given
level/backend . If you want to configure a Log and leave its children alone
it is best to set the `level` or `backend` directly:

```crystal
MyShard::Log.level = :error
MyShard::Log.backend = MyCustomBackend.new
```

## Built-in formatters

Dexter works with *any* `Log::Formatter`, but has a JSON formatter built-in
that works especially well.

* Logs exceptions in an easily parseable format
```json
{
  "exception": { "class": "RuntimeError", "message": "Something broke", backtrace: ["line_of_code.cr:123"] }
}
```
* Puts string message in a `message` key that comes first so you can find it easily
* JSON works great for searching logs with many SaaS logging services


## Create your own formatter

Included is a `Dexter::JSONLogFormatter`, but you can create your own formatter to format
and output log data however you want. For example,
[Lucky](https://luckyframework.org) has a `PrettyLogFormatter` that formats data
in a human readable format during development, and uses the `JSONLogFormatter`
in production.

See an example formatter in [Dexter::JSONLogFormatter](https://github.com/luckyframework/dexter/blob/master/src/dexter/json_log_formatter.cr)

## Contributing

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/luckyframework/dexter/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

## Contributors

- [Paul Smith](https://github.com/paulcsmith) - creator and maintainer
